What could be more exciting than right
now talking about SQL injection,
I can fathom nothing.
So that's what we're going to do.
So, I want to talk about why we do this,
this part right here.
Well think about this for just a second.
We're taking an req.query.search.
And this,
I need to rearrange my windows here.
Here we go.
This is coming from the user, right?
Imagine this is just some thing
available to your message board user.
And they're coming in here and they're
typing, you know, 45 and search and
getting information back from the server.
Okay?
Everything that comes from the user
you have to assume as hostile right
some not so
nice actor is going to come in and
put things garbage in there that's going
to be destructive to what you're doing.
Okay?
If I put rec query dot
search directly into here,
in fact I'm let's be irresponsible and
do this.
So I'm going to put this instead.
And instead of that I'm going to put this.
Okay, so now I'm putting
directly into this query here.
Whatever the user gives me.
Why is this dangerous?
Why is this terrible,
horrible, no good idea?
Because the user could just give you
a number, which is what they should do.
They can put 45 or
they can start giving you SQL, right?
So what happens if the user comes in and
says something like- One semicolon,
DROP TABLE users, semi colon dash dash.
I'm not going to do it because it
literally wrecked my database right now.
Let's just replace it here.
What happens if the user does like what
happens if I put that into my query?
That's gonna drop my users table, right?
It's gonna delete everything that I
have in that particular database.
That's a huge problem.
So if I put a semi-colon there, that
means I can start writing more queries.
Like Postgres is not going to know.
It was like,
I assume this is what you want to do.
This is the information that you sent me.
I'm going to do exactly what you're doing.
They put this dash dash at
the end to comment out.
If you have more query stuff after that,
this is called SQL injection right?
You're interpreting user
input directly as SQL.
Hopefully this is striking like the fear
of the hackers in your heart, right?
That's why we don't do this this way.
This is why you do parameterized
queries because what happens here.
Is now the driver, PG goes and
escapes all of this and says nothing.
SQL related can exist in search, req.
Query.search.
So they escape out all the characters.
They don't allow comments.
There's a bunch of stuff
that you cannot do in here.
The driver will protect you from
shooting yourself in the foot.
So let's just kind of do something for
fun here,
so let's go back to
the way that I had this,
all right, so
we do it this way and then I would
change this to just be
returned common rez,
okay now what happens if I come in?
So right now I can just do 45 search.
I got to restart my server to search,
okay, this all works fine.
The user is doing everything
that we expect them to.
But what happens if I do one colon.
What do I have here?
Yeah, SELECT * FROM
user; -- Did I break it?
I might have.yeah,
that's actually okay.
Hold on.
So this one, I'm just going to replace
this with 39 just for a second because
normally not running two queries at
once based on the same user input.
All right, one more time.
Try this again.
So, here's what happened here.
I got the board bags, I got the post back,
but here's the issue.
Now, what happened is it
ran a second query for
me here with a Select rowCount 1000.
I just leaked all my user information.
Right you can see here that here's
all the emails usernames last log on.
This is like a catastrophe.
This is how like, whenever you see
like data leaks like have I been poned
calm this is very frequently
how this happens,
some uninformed developer or
developer that's just working too fast
accidentally just leaves
themself up into SQL injection.
And someone less nice can come through and
do some SQL injection here, right?
Now this is like relatively, you know,
leaking emails is not good, right?
But like leaking passwords,
or leaking a bunch of other stuff
can be absolutely catastrophic.
And if someone discovers that they can
do this, what they can actually do
is they can go using Postgres set
themselves up as an administrative user,
give themself a password.
Figure out your IP and
then directly connect to your database and
then they can get everything right.
They can exfiltrate all of your data and
you would never know that there another
user was in there and
stole all of your data.
That's exactly what happens to again a lot
of big companies, if someone gets in there
steals all their data, wipes, whatever
record of themselves being there, and no
one ever knows that they were ever there,
right and they stole all of that data.
They only know you know, three years later
when they see that their data is for sale.
So all of this to say,
SQL injection, really big deal.
Make sure you're doing
parameterized queries.
This is like, if I teach, if you learn
nothing else from this course, it's
probably the most important thing is it's
really important that you never do this,
but I just showed you
how to do don't do that.